Quickstart go api (#2512)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/quickstarts/quickstart-go-api.mdx

Reviewer: Did not catch this, we should change this filename to `quickstart-golang-api.mdx` to conform to the other golang quickstart.

Author: renamed

---
title: Go API Resource Server

> description: Quickstart integration of a Spring Boot api application action as a resource server with FusionAuth

Reviewer: Not spring boot

navcategory: getting-started
prerequisites: Go
section: api
technology: Go
language: Go
icon: /img/icons/golang.svg
faIcon: fa-g
color: blue
cta: EmailListCTA
coderoot: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-go-api/main
---
import Aside from '../../components/Aside.astro';
import Diagram from '../../diagrams/quickstarts/resource-server.astro';
import RemoteCode from '../../components/RemoteCode.astro';

In this tutorial, you are going to learn how to integrate a Go resource server with FusionAuth. You will protect an API resource from unauthorized usage. You'll be building it for [ChangeBank](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXDxNCzUspM), a global leader in converting dollars into coins.

> The docker compose file and source code for a complete application are available at https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-go-api.

Author: @mooreds , looks like I no longer have access to rename the repo.  Can you please do that and let me know?

> The docker compose file and source code for a complete application are available at https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-go-api.

Reviewer: This is done.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="authorization"
  lang="go"/>

There is a lot of code in this function. Let's break it down:
- First you validate some claims. Notice the `checkAudience` that makes sure the token is intended for this application and `checkIss` to make sure the issuer is as expected.
- `SetPublicKey`, which is a function we will create later, retrieves the public key for the JWT
- After the key has been set, the `golang-jwt/jwt` will validate the signature and expiration date.
- Once the token is validated, you will need to take a look at the roles.
- The code will look to see which page is being called and then create an array for the roles that are valid for that request in `validRoles`.
     - The containsRole function will be created as well and that creates an array with the intersection of roles that are allowed and roles that are required. If the length of that intersection is greater than 1 then the user has the proper role.
- Once the roles have been validated, then the endpoint is served.

> Now, you will add the code to set the public key. This function will accept the key id from the token and call the authorization server to get the public key with that key id and put it in the proper format to be used.

Author: replaced.

<Aside type="note">

> In this example, if the key is already set, it will not call it again. In a production environment you could store this key on the server or set it once on initialization. If your api serves several applications, you will need to get the correct public key for each application if they are different.

Author: Tried to clean it up a little

</Aside>

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="set-public-key"
  lang="go"/>

Then add the code to compare the required roles to the user's roles based on the token.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="contains-role"
  lang="go"/>

Finally we will add a helper function that returns the name of the function being called by the endpoint.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="helper"
  lang="go"/>

> That is all the code for the sample application. Save the `main.go` file.

Reviewer: I had to install the jwt module:

```
go run main.go 
main.go:17:2: no required module provides package github.com/golang-jwt/jwt; to add it:
	go get github.com/golang-jwt/jwt
dan@mooreds your-application % go get github.com/golang-jwt/jwt
go: added github.com/golang-jwt/jwt v3.2.2+incompatible
```

Reviewer: Did you?

Author: did you run `go get` before you tried `run main.go`? I believe that will get the module.

Reviewer: I thought I did. I am running a slightly older version of golang, so perhaps that is the issue. Will try again and report back.

Reviewer: It works great when I use go 1.21.

## Run the API

Start the API resource server by running:

In a command shell window, navigate to the root directory of your application.

```shell
cd your-application
go get
go run main.go
```

### Get a Token

There are [several ways to acquire a token](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/) in FusionAuth, but for this example you will use the [Login API](/docs/v1/tech/apis/login) to keep things simple.

First let's try the requests as the `teller@example.com` user. Based on the configuration this user has the `teller` role and should be able to use both `/make-change` and `/panic`.

> 1. Acquire an access token for `teller@example` by making the following request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Acquire an access token for `teller@example.com` by making the following request
```

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689353059670,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Make the Request

Use the `token` as a `Bearer` token in the `Authorization` header. Make a request to `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=5.12`.

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:9001/make-change?total=5.12' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```

> We can make change using 20 quarters 1 dimes 0 nickels 2 pennies

Reviewer: Can we have this be a JSON message in the same format as https://fusionauth.io/docs/quickstarts/quickstart-springboot-api

Reviewer: Please do that for all of them.

Author: done

* You may want to generate a token using the [Client Credentials grant](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/#example-client-credentials-grant) if you are calling the API from another service.

### Security
* Customize the [token expiration times and policies](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/#configure-application-oauth-settings) in FusionAuth
* [Make sure you know how to securely consume a token](/articles/tokens/building-a-secure-jwt#consuming-a-jwt)
* Secure your API [using an API gateway](/docs/v1/tech/developer-guide/api-gateways/) rather than at the framework layer.

## Troubleshooting

* I get `This site can’t be reached localhost refused to connect.` when I call the Login API.

Ensure FusionAuth is running in the Docker container. You should be able to login as the admin user, `admin@example.com` with a password of `password` at [http://localhost:9011/admin](http://localhost:9011/admin).

* The `/panic` endpoint doesn't work when I call it.

Make sure you are making a `POST` call and using a token with the `teller` role.

> 

Reviewer: I ran into this error.

- `panic`: Tellers may call this endpoint to call the police in case of an incident. The only valid role is `teller`.

Both endpoints will be protected such that a valid JSON web token (JWT) will be required in the `Authorization` header in order to be accessed. Additionally, the JWT must have a `roles` claim containing the appropriate role to use the endpoint.

<Aside type="note">
If you simply want to run the application , there is a completed version in the 'complete-application' directory. You can use the following commands to get it up and running if you do not want to create your own.

```shell
cd complete-application
go get
go run main.go
```

You can then follow the instructions in the Run the API section started at Get a Token.
</Aside>

To create the application from scratch, make a directory for this API. 

```
mkdir your-application && cd your-application
```

### Initialize The Application

Initialize the Go application using the following:

```
go mod init your-application
```

### Write Go Code

<Aside type="note">
This tutorial puts all these classes in the same package for simplicity, but for a production application, you'd separate these out.
</Aside>

> Now you are going to write some Go code. You need to create a file called 'main.go'. Here you will add the package clause and import declarations below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you are going to write some Go code. You need to create a file called `main.go`. Here you will add the package clause and import declarations below:
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="package-imports"
  lang="go"/>

> You will also need to declare a variable that will hold the value of the public key for the application. The value for this key will be set later in the application. Declare this variable below the import declarations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will also need to declare a variable and assign the value of the public key for the application. The value for this key will be set later in the application. Declare this variable below the import declarations.
```

- First you validate some claims. Notice the `checkAudience` that makes sure the token is intended for this application and `checkIss` to make sure the issuer is as expected.
- `SetPublicKey`, which is a function we will create later, retrieves the public key for the JWT
- After the key has been set, the `golang-jwt/jwt` will validate the signature and expiration date.
- Once the token is validated, you will need to take a look at the roles.
- The code will look to see which page is being called and then create an array for the roles that are valid for that request in `validRoles`.
     - The containsRole function will be created as well and that creates an array with the intersection of roles that are allowed and roles that are required. If the length of that intersection is greater than 1 then the user has the proper role.
- Once the roles have been validated, then the endpoint is served.

Now, you will add the code to set the public key. This function will accept the key id from the token and call the authorization server to get the public key with that key id and put it in the proper format to be used.

<Aside type="note">

> In this example, if the key is already set, it will not call it again. In a production environment you could store this key on the server or set it once one initialization. If your api serves several applications, you will need to get the correct public key for each application if they are different.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, if the key is already set, it will not call it again. In a production environment you could store this key on the server or set it once on initialization. If your api serves several applications, you will need to get the correct public key for each application if they are different.
```

</Aside>

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="set-public-key"
  lang="go"/>

> Then, you will add the code for comparing the required roles and the roles the user has according to the token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then add the code to compare the required roles to the user's roles based on the token.
```

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689354123118,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

Now use that token to call `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=3.24`

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:9001/make-change?total=3.24' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```
We can make change using 12 quarters 2 dimes 0 nickels 4 pennies
```

So far so good. Now let's try to call the `/panic` endpoint. (We're adding the `-i` flag to see the headers of the response)

```shell
curl -i --request POST 'http://localhost:9001/panic' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like:

```

> Proper role not found for user

Reviewer 2: Not sure how much it matters but the case is different

`proper role not found for user`
vs.
`Proper role not found for user`

Author: will update the message.

```

> Uh oh, I guess you are not allowed to do that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Dan had me remove some snark, maybe we pull this?

Author: changed.

- `panic`: Tellers may call this endpoint to call the police in case of an incident. The only valid role is `teller`.

Both endpoints will be protected such that a valid JSON web token (JWT) will be required in the `Authorization` header in order to be accessed. Additionally, the JWT must have a `roles` claim containing the appropriate role to use the endpoint.

<Aside type="note">
If you simply want to run the application , there is a completed version in the 'complete-application' directory. You can use the following commands to get it up and running if you do not want to create your own.

```shell
cd complete-application
go get
go run main.go
```

You can then follow the instructions in the Run the API section started at Get a Token.
</Aside>

To create the application from scratch, make a directory for this API. 

```
mkdir your-application && cd your-application
```

### Initialize The Application

Initialize the Golang application using the following:

```
go mod init your-application
```

### Write Golang Code

<Aside type="note">
This tutorial puts all these classes in the same package for simplicity, but for a production application, you'd separate these out.
</Aside>

> Now you are going to write some Golang code. You need to create a file called `main.go`. Here you will add the package clause and import declarations below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are going to write some Golang code. You need to create a file called `main.go`. You'll be building it step by step, adding code each step.

Here you will add the package clause and import declarations below:
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="package-imports"
  lang="go"/>

You will also need to declare a variable and assign the value of the public key for the application. The value for this key will be set later in the application. Declare this variable below the import declarations.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="verify-key"
  lang="go"/>

### Add Handlers and Functions

Create the main function for the application.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="main"

>   lang="go"/>

Reviewer: Not sure if the `  //this is a newline comment` comment is intentional?

Author: not intentional, removed

Next, you are going to add some handlers. This tells the application how to handle specific requests. Notice the `isAuthorized` function wrapping around the `panic` and `makeChange` functions. We will implement this function later and it is what will validate the token and verify the roles. This function will also stand up the http listener on port `9001`.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="handlers"
  lang="go"/>

> You will write two functions that will return values when users access them. These functions are called by the handlers. One is the `panic` which returns a message when a successful `POST` call is made to `/panic`. This will also display a message if the request is not made through a `POST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will write two functions that will return values when users access them. These functions are called by the handlers. One is the `panic` which returns a message when a successful `POST` call is made to `/panic`. This will also display a message if the request is not made through a `POST`. This API has no relation to the `panic` method in go, it's for a teller panicking when ChangeBank is being robbed.
```

Author: Didn't even know this was a thing.  Thanks!

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="panic-function"
  lang="go"/>

> Next you need a function to show the breakdown from making changes. This function will get the `total` value from the query string. If the `total` cannot be cast to a `float64`, the function will return a message stating that. If the `total` is a valid number, the function will return the description of the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next you need a function to show the breakdown from making change for a given dollar amount. This function will get the `total` value from the query string. If the `total` cannot be cast to a `float64`, the function will return a message stating that. If the `total` is a valid number, the function will return the description of the change.
```

  "authenticationType": "PASSWORD",
  "email": "teller@example.com",
  "email_verified": true,
  "applicationId": "e9fdb985-9173-4e01-9d73-ac2d60d1dc8e",
  "roles": [
    "teller"
  ],
  "auth_time": 1689285985,
  "tid": "d7d09513-a3f5-401c-9685-34ab6c552453"
}
```

You need to validate the token and make sure the user has the appropriate role to access the API. You can do so by adding the following code:

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="authorization"
  lang="go"/>

There is a lot of code in this function. Let's break it down:
- First you validate some claims. Notice the `checkAudience` that makes sure the token is intended for this application and `checkIss` to make sure the issuer is as expected.
- `SetPublicKey`, which is a function we will create later, retrieves the public key for the JWT.
- After the key has been set, the `golang-jwt/jwt` will validate the signature and expiration date.
- Once the token is validated, you will need to take a look at the roles.
- The code will look to see which page is being called and then create an array for the roles that are valid for that request in `validRoles`.

>      - The `containsRole` function will be created as well and that creates an array with the intersection of roles that are allowed and roles that are required. If the length of that intersection is greater than 1 then the user has the proper role.

Reviewer: Any reason this is indented?

- Once the roles have been validated, then the endpoint is served.

Now, you will add the code to set the public key. This function will accept the key Id from the token and call the authorization server to get the public key with that key Id and put it in the proper format to be used.

<Aside type="note">

> Different tokens can be signed with different keys. In this example there is only one key used. If the key is already set, the application will not attempt to set it again. In a production environment you could store this key on the server or set it once on initialization. If your api serves several applications, you will need to get the correct public key for each application if the signing keys are different between applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different tokens can be signed with different keys. In this example there is only one key used. If the key is already set, the application will not attempt to set it again. In a production environment you could store this key on the server or set it once on initialization. If your API serves several applications which present tokens signed with different keys, you will need to get the correct public key for each one.
```

</Aside>

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="set-public-key"
  lang="go"/>

Then add the code to compare the required roles to the user's roles based on the token.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="contains-role"
  lang="go"/>

Finally we will add a helper function that returns the name of the function being called by the endpoint.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/main.go"} tags="helper"
  lang="go"/>

That is all the code for the sample application. Save the `main.go` file.

## Run the API

Start the API resource server by running:

In a command shell window, navigate to the root directory of your API.

```shell
cd your-application
go get
go run main.go

> ```

Reviewer: I get this error message when I step through the instructions:

```
dan@mooreds your-application % go run main.go
# command-line-arguments
./main.go:53:15: undefined: ChangeResponse
./main.go:94:28: undefined: DenominationCounter
```

I am using 1.21.

I don't see this when I go into `complete-application`. There it works fine.

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689353059670,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Make the Request

Use the `token` as a `Bearer` token in the `Authorization` header. Make a request to `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=5.12`.

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:9001/make-change?total=5.12' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```

> We can make change using 20 quarters 1 dimes 0 nickels 2 pennies

Reviewer: You need to change this value to be the JSON output.

Author: Doh! Fixed

```

You were authorized, success! You can try making the request without the `Authorization` header or with a different string rather than a valid token, and see that you are denied access.

Next call the `/panic` endpoint because you are in trouble!

```shell
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:9001/panic' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

This is a `POST` not a get because you want all your emergency calls to be non-idempotent.

Your response should look like this:

```

> We've called the police!

Reviewer: You need to change this value to be the JSON output.

Author: Doh! Doh! Fixed

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689354123118,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

Now use that token to call `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=3.24`

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:9001/make-change?total=3.24' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```

> We can make change using 12 quarters 2 dimes 0 nickels 4 pennies

Reviewer: JSON output :)

Author: Doh! Doh! Doh! Fixed

```

So far so good. Now let's try to call the `/panic` endpoint. (We're adding the `-i` flag to see the headers of the response)

```shell
curl -i --request POST 'http://localhost:9001/panic' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like:

```

> Proper role not found for user

Reviewer: JSON output :)

Author: Doh! Doh! Doh! Doh! Fixed

### Security
* Customize the [token expiration times and policies](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/#configure-application-oauth-settings) in FusionAuth
* [Make sure you know how to securely consume a token](/articles/tokens/building-a-secure-jwt#consuming-a-jwt)
* Secure your API [using an API gateway](/docs/v1/tech/developer-guide/api-gateways/) rather than at the framework layer.

## Troubleshooting

* I get `This site can’t be reached localhost refused to connect.` when I call the Login API.

Ensure FusionAuth is running in the Docker container. You should be able to login as the admin user, `admin@example.com` with a password of `password` at [http://localhost:9011/admin](http://localhost:9011/admin).

* The `/panic` endpoint doesn't work when I call it.

Make sure you are making a `POST` call and using a token with the `teller` role.

* I get an error message: `curl: (52) Empty reply from server`

Make sure you are using the correct `Authorization` header. If you don't have `Bearer ` in front of your token, you will see this error message.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* I get a message `invalid signing method`.

Make sure you are providing the application Id on the login request. This ensures that the JWT is signed with the correct key.

```
